### For the Communist Party, thi could be a risk
 AT THE end of last year Bytedance, one of China’ most talked-about technology firms, seem to have the world at it feet. Since it <span class="fa fa-info-circle">found</span> in 2012 more than 700m use had tr out it apps, which serve people with a diet of news, funny video and memes, tailor to <span class="fa fa-info-circle">individual</span> users’ tast by clev algorithms. The Beijing-bas company had been valu at more than $20bn and embark on a buy spree abroad in a bid to go global.
 
 The picture now i le rosy. On April 9th state media report that Chinese <span class="fa fa-info-circle">regulator</span> had suspend Bytedance’ flagship app, Jinri Toutiao (Today’ Headlines) for three weeks. They had also bann outright anoth of it products, a joke-shar app call Neihan Duanzi, which specialis in bawdy humour and had more than 20m active users. Official said it “vulgar and banal” content had upset people. Two day lat Zhang Yiming, the firm’ founder, issu an apology online say he wa “fill with guilt and remorse” that hi app had taken “the wrong path”. He said hi company had not understood that “technology must be l by socialist core values.” He pledg that it would do more to spread “positive energy”.
 
 Bytedance’ travails, and those of three oth firm that also had to suspend their news-aggregat apps, sugg that <span class="fa fa-info-circle">censor</span> are try to catch up with new technology. Official appear to worry that people can immerse themselv in new and entertainment which, while pos no <span class="fa fa-info-circle">direct</span> challenge to the party, fail to promote party views. Personalis new servic us artificial intelligence have enabl use to wall themselv off from puff piec about the party’ lat achievements. (Jinri Toutiao’ slogan, featur in the advertisement pictur above, promis <span class="fa fa-info-circle">reader</span> “on what you care about”.) David Bandurski of the China Media Project, a research group in Hong Kong, say that “party leade are aware of this.” Thi i why Mr Zhang now promis to do a bett job of promot “authoritative media” through hi services.
 
 Censor are also pay more attention to content they <span class="fa fa-info-circle">regard</span> a “lowbrow”: material deem licentious, sexist or like to encourage what the party <span class="fa fa-info-circle">regard</span> a immoral behaviour. State media have report disapprove on the <span class="fa fa-info-circle">upload</span> of video to one of Bytedance’ platform by teenage mothe who do not appear contrite about hav children before the legal age for marriage. Cultural <span class="fa fa-info-circle">commissar</span> are becom quick to suppre anyth they <span class="fa fa-info-circle">regard</span> a non-mainstream, from hip-hop music to tattoos. The national football team recent took to the field with their ink hidden und bandages.
 
 In the past ten month <span class="fa fa-info-circle">official</span> have also been <span class="fa fa-info-circle">clamp</span> down on gossip. Some portal have replac their fee offe new about celebrit with alternativ <span class="fa fa-info-circle">direct</span> use to patriotic fare. Regulator have also shut down the microblog account of celebrity-gossip writers. The censors’ reason may be that tattle about film star might lead people to believe that it i also acceptable to peddle rumour about politicians. Or they may have simp decid that read such new <span class="fa fa-info-circle">divert</span> people’ attention from the lat utteranc of President Xi Jinping.
 
** Xi’ amazing **
 
 Effort to boost Mr Xi are reach unprecedent heights. Pictur of him are <span class="fa fa-info-circle">command</span> increas amount of space on the front pag of <span class="fa fa-info-circle">official</span> newspapers. Last month a film call “Amaz China” became the country’ highest-ev gross documentary, in large part because government offic and state-link compan have been encourag to block-book <span class="fa fa-info-circle">screening</span> for their staff. The film <span class="fa fa-info-circle">dwell</span> on the achievement of Mr Xi. In February the media <span class="fa fa-info-circle">regulator</span> said that it would designate 5,000 cinema a “People’ Theatres”. These will have to devote more time to film such a “Amaz China” that promote socialist values.
 
 The censors’ shift priorit are a challenge for Chinese tech firms. Compan that operate social-media platform or allow use to share content have their own in-house censors. In hi online apology, Mr Zhang of Bytedance said he plann to <span class="fa fa-info-circle">expand</span> hi team of them by two-thirds, to 10,000. But such employe are often unsure how to interpret the government’ directives. Last year the New York Tim report that <span class="fa fa-info-circle">regulator</span> had circulat a less-than-helpful list of 68 typ of material that internet firm were expect to expunge, rang from media that promote “unhealthy marital values” to post that blur lin between “beauty and ugliness”.
 
 Satisfy the <span class="fa fa-info-circle">censor</span> also involv financial risk. Bytedance and similar compan will find it much more difficult to attract and retain use without content that i “borderline risqué”, say Bhavtosh Vajpayee of Bernstein, a research firm. Officials’ distaste for new packag by <span class="fa fa-info-circle">algorithm</span> could impede China’ development of artificial intelligence, since new aggregator such a Toutiao off a profitable mean of improv such technology.
 
 Above all, the party itself i tak a risk. In the decade or two before Mr Xi took over, people were given wid leeway to amuse themselv a they wish a long a they avoid politics. Official may have reckon that such an approach would reinforce stability by giv people le reason to resent the party. Mr Xi, by contrast, i try to revive the party a an enforc of morality and taste. By stamp on citizens’ small pleasur he could irritate many people who had <span class="fa fa-info-circle">previous</span> shown no inte in politics.
 
 The bigg fan of Bytedance’ now-defunct humour app, for example, were men without great <span class="fa fa-info-circle">prospect</span> liv in small cities. That the app help them form group of like-mind <span class="fa fa-info-circle">individual</span> in the real world and engage in prank such a <span class="fa fa-info-circle">honk</span> their car horn in a cod sequence may help explain why the authorit shut it down. But by try to insert more propaganda into such people’ leisure time, <span class="fa fa-info-circle">official</span> could end up mak the party seem like a bore who doesn’t know when to shut up.
 
 In recent weeks, among the country’ more than 700m internet users, there ha been evidence of unhappine with the party’ meddling. On April 13th Sina Weibo, one of the country’ bigg social-media platforms, declar a three-month effort to purge itself of post <span class="fa fa-info-circle">contain</span> pornography or promot violence or homosexuality—topic that had been rul off-limit by the regulator. It i possible that Sina decid to mount it campaign in a high public mann in ord to show off it zeal to the party’ media watchdogs.
 
 Angry people flood the site with messag <span class="fa fa-info-circle">lambast</span> the firm’ intolerance of homosexuality. Even the People’ Daily, a party mouthpiece, weigh in against Sina. On April 16th the company said it would no long target gay content that wa not smutty. The incident mark a rare victory for online freedom and for gay rights. It wa also a remind of how contentiou and how unpredictable China’ <span class="fa fa-info-circle">expand</span> censorship ha become.
